Writerly

Writerly is an experimental "white label" markup language
that relates to XML similarly to how lightweight
markup languages such as Markdown relate to HTML.

Writerly's syntax is inherited from Matthew Griffith's
Elm-Markup, but the usage is entirely different.

Writerly offers authors a means to 
unobtrusively situate plaintext-like content
within an XML-like AST. (Abstract Syntax Tree.) 
The semantics of the XML tags are not Writerly's purview,
however, turning Writerly an ergonomic human-facing
superset of XML, in some sense. (We say "superset"
because Writerly three extra first-class citizens
that XML does not recognize, these being paragraphs, code blocks, and list
items. These new citizens are encoded in the XML tree via specialized
tags, e.g., `WriterlyParagraph` and `WriterlyCodeBlock`.)

Writerly also comes with a batteries included standard
for assembling single documents from a directory of files.

The following consitutes a sample Writerly source,
to the left (in the form of a file directory), and 
a beskope rendering of that source—in this case, using HTML—to
the right (courtesy Dominik Scheder, TU Chemnitz):

[]

Writerly "knows nothing" of the
intended semantics of the various tags—e.g., "|> Carousel"—indeed
Writerly does not even care which format the author is trying
to generate. (In this case HTML.)

Instead, Writerly adopts a "bring your own semantics"
approach to content generation—after assembling parsing
and assembling the initial source into a tree, it is up
to the user to process the tree into whatever (typically machine-readable)
format they are trying to target—be it HTML, .JSX, .tex,
.PDF, or any other secondary or final format.

This brings us to our next topic: _desugaring and desugaring
pipelines_.

As a minimalistic "bring your own semantics" markup
language Writerly only recognizes four first-class semantic
citizens:

- tags and attribute-value pairs (as in XML)
- paragraphs
- list items
- code blocks

One can note that lists and sublists, as well as code
blocks, affect the left-indentation of an ordinary text
document when the lists and code blocks are written with
the usual (e.g., markdown-like) shorthands. Since Writerly
is an indentation-based format, there is some sense
in which Writerly "must" accommodate the 

Writerly's goal is to offer a highly ergonomic,
unopinionated and self-effacing syntax to encode
XML-like structures within non-technical documents
while maintaining a pleasing appearance to the human.



Per one viewpoint, Writerly offers the first mile
of work towards creating an content-creator-facing 
DSL


Writerly offers “the first mile of parsing”

Writerly
does not ascribe any semantics to the XML tags however, and,
indeed, even the format of the final rendering target—which
could be HTML, PDF, .JSX or other—remains entirely 
outside of the language's purview.
